Okay, transition, where we are.
We want to say that if I click Submit,
it shows them like a little loading
spinner where the submit button is and
it doesn't allow them to click it multiple
times because that makes sense, right?
We can use a transition to handle that.
This is more useful than deferred value.
I can actually see some of us having use
cases where useTransition can be fine.
The nice thing about useTransition is that
it can show you an intermediary state, and
then if it needs to be interrupted,
it's also interruptible.
So it's both low priority and
helps us show a good loading
state in these intermediary periods,
all A plus to me.
So what we're gonna do
here is we're gonna say,
in SearchParams.jsx,
we're gonna load a useTransition.
Okay, down in our form submit,
so down here,
I think I forgot to put this in here.
Okay, so, here we're gonna say
const [] = useTransition(),
and I gotta remember the exact
call signature here,
cuz I forgot to put it in my notes.
So you're gonna have isPending as
a Boolean that it gives back to you,
and then the second function
is startTransition.
Pretty sure I'm getting this right.
And then it doesn't take
anything in there as well.
Okay, on my form transition here, or
my form function here,
what I wanna do is right after here,
I'm gonna put call this function
called startTransition.
This takes in a function where I can
say SetRequestParameters(object),
so I can actually just move
this inside of here, rather.
What you're doing is you're
identifying to React like,
I'm gonna call setState in here,
some sort of setState for my hooks.
Whatever happens inside of here,
low priority stuff can be interrupted,
that's fine with me, okay?
So that's step one.
Step two is we're gonna go
down to our button, And
we're just going to say,
hey, if this is pending,
Then show me my loading pane.
So I'm gonna say div className
= "mini loading-pane".
h2 className = "loader".
And let's put a spinning poodle in here,
just for funsies.
If it's not loading,
then just show me my button, right?
So I'm going to move my
Submit button into here.
Okay, so to show you the desired
effect here, I have cat here,
and then if I hit Submit,
notice when I click Submit,
it's gonna spin a poodle for
just a second.
Didn't even do that for me.
So we're identifying that setting
the requestParams as the object is
the lowest priority transition.
That actually requires almost
no re-rendering, right?
That actually literally
requires no re-rendering.
So if this is always coming back
as not being deferred, yep.
So the part that we would
have to defer then,
we would probably be deferring the pets
rather than doing it this way, right?
Because that's actually the expensive
part of the re-rendering.
This in and
of itself requires no UI re-rendering.
Yep, that makes sense.
So this in and of itself,
just setting the object here,
that is not necessarily
the best way to do it.
Better way of doing it for
my data, going back to this, yeah,
we have to interact more with React Query
to get the best way that we would want to,
right, to show that intermediary state.
Yep, Okay,
In any case, it would have
been hard to proceed anyways.
So I have a good note here though.
Some of you might be wondering,
when do I use useDeferredValue
versus when do I use useTransition?
So a good way to keep them kinda straight
is for useTransition, it's to say,
I have something new that I'm about to
give you, but it's low priority, so
feel free to do this at your own speed.
Whereas useDeferredValue,
it's more after the fact, is like, hey,
I just got something
that's going to be new, so
please re-render this thing that I
already have at your leisure, right?
So useTransition, you know you're about
to go into something that's heavy.
With useDeferredValue, it's like,
I got something heavy,
please do this at your leisure, right?
So the key there is startTransition
with useTransition, right?
That you're identifying to React,
this is something new and heavy,
please do this at your leisure.